War Engines first pass (#28)
GameBrains/er-core: modules/special-rules/pages/war-engines-and-blast-markers.adoc

= War engines and Blast markers

Blast markers affect War Engine detachments in much the same way as other units.
However, *all* War Engine detachments have the {stubborn} ability.

> You may add +1 to the result of Leadership tests when the total initial Damage Capacity value of the War Engine detachment is `15` or more, instead when it has `15` or more units.

Reviewer: Rationalising on '15 or more' is good, but the phrasing is tricky for a couple of reasons. One reason is that we don't want to imply that a detachment gets the bonus based on the total initial DC as it was at the start of the game, but rather on the total initial DCs of all units that remain in play at this moment.

I think that this should work:

```suggestion
Where your War Engine detachment currently has units in it whose *initial* Damage Capacity values total 15 or more, you may add +1 to the result of the Leadership test.
```

> {blank}[TODO: Is this the best place to highlight this point? I think it might be better to improve the Leadership test text and to clarify what is what when it comes to 'number of units' and 'detachment strength' and initial Damage Capacity versus current Damage Capacity for the purposes of the Leadership test.]

Reviewer: I'm still not sure about this. It'd be better on the one hand to refine the Leadership test topic and eliminate the need to mention it here — but on the other hand it would mean that we'd necessarily have to mention some special rules concepts, which we try not to do in the core rules.

@IJW-Wartrader Do you have any more thoughts on the matter, either way? If not then we could leave this note as-is for now and experiment with the idea another time in future — perhaps when we're getting nearer to a first stable release and we go back over the rules to clear up all TODO notes in one way for another.

Reviewer: Actually, given your addition of examples below, I think it makes most sense to do it all as we've done here — otherwise we kinda need to add the examples to the core rules as well. So, might as well delete this note I think.
```suggestion
```

> .Ork Great Gargant

Reviewer: I'm still not sure about this. It'd be better on the one hand to refine the Leadership test topic and eliminate the need to mention it here — but on the other hand it would mean that we'd necessarily have to mention some special rules concepts, which we try not to do in the core rules.

@IJW-Wartrader Do you have any more thoughts on the matter, either way? If not then we could leave this note as-is for now and experiment with the idea another time in future — perhaps when we're getting nearer to a first stable release and we go back over the rules to clear up all TODO notes in one way for another.

> .Ork Great Gargant
> ====
> A Great Gargant is a war engine with an initial Damage Capacity value of 18.
> 
> You may add +1 to the result of Leadership tests, even if the Great Gargant's current Damage Capacity value falls below 15.
> ====
> 
> .Imperial Guard Super Heavy Tank Company
> ====
> Baneblades are war engines with an initial Damage Capacity value of 4.
> 
> A detachment of four Baneblades has a total initial Damage Capacity value of 16, so you may add +1 to the result of Leadership tests.
> 
> If the detachment is reduced to three Baneblades the total is 12, so you cannot add +1 to the result of Leadership tests.
> ====
> 
> 

Reviewer: Please double-check that the tweaks in this suggestion don't 'undo' anything or introduce new problems.

_Aside: Note that I use the backtick 'code' format for actual data sheet values, and not for totals of multiple data sheet values._

```suggestion
.Leadership test bonus -- Ork Great Gargant
====
The Great Gargant is a War Engine unit that has an initial Damage Capacity value of `18`.
It forms its own detachment of one unit.

You may add +1 to the results of Leadership tests for this detachment, even after the Great Gargant's current Damage Capacity value falls below 15.
====

.Leadership test bonus -- Imperial Guard Super Heavy Tank Company
====
The Baneblade is a War Engine unit that has an initial Damage Capacity value of `4`.
So, a detachment that currently includes four Baneblade units has an initial Damage Capacity value total of 16.

You may add +1 to the results of Leadership tests for this detachment, even after their current Damage Capacity values total less than 15.

But, if any units are destroyed or no longer in play for some reason, then the initial Damage Capacity values will total less than 15.
So then you may no longer add +1 to the results of Leadership tests.
====

```
